Open-source, Offline, Low-tech collection - High-tech data entry, light-weight.

Tired of using Excel for data Entry?
Enketo is particularly meant for organizations that want to use a modern web-based tool to gather data efficiently but cannot because they don't have the resources for .. 


Enketo uses an open-source form format and is designed to play nicely with e.g. Formhub and ODK (and should work well with Kobo but this has not been tested yet). Enketo can work side-by-side with ODK Collect.

Why not just use ODK Collect?
ODK collect is a great tool and for many surveys an excellent option because it does data collection and data entry in one go, which compared to traditional paper+pencil collection and central data entry, not only improves efficiency, it could also lead to more accuracy (no need to read hand-writing). However, in some situations, it may not be appropriate because of the required acquisition of suitable mobile devices (think e.g. about conducting a needs assessment in a primary emergency). The kind of data collected plays an important role too. If e.g. images, audio, video collection is a significant part of the survey, ODK Collect is probably the best tool. If many question ask for text, notes on paper and a browser-based entry may be more suitable. Cultural acceptance by an interviewee of a mobile device or ...... may also play a rol in deciding which tool to use.

The beauty of the OpenRosa ecosystem that ODK and Enketo form parts of is that they use agreed standards and can therefore easily be swapped. You can use the right tool for each survey separately or even use multiple tools for the same survey..

Will Enketo also get an integrated form builder?
Maybe

Will Enketo also get an integrated data collation 'server'?
Probably not. We recommend Formhub if you're comfortable using their form builder (in Excel)

What's the catch?
- Enketo is still in alpha and therefore you'll encounter many bugs. Please help by reporting them!
- Enketo has only been tested the Chrome Desktop browser to reduce development time significantly. Firefox support should follow soon as well as other desktop browsers. It may never work on Internet Explorer. Mobile browser support is being considered.
- There is no nice print option for forms yet.

My form doesn't work properly. Any help?
It could be a bug. Please email the form and describe the problem.

Note that if your problem relates to a formula that checks whether a node is empty, that boolean(path/to/node) is not supposed to do this, and neither does if(path/to/node, 'a', 'b'), even though both currently work this way in ODK Collect. What these formulae should evaluate is whether the node exists, regardless of whether it is empty or not (so it will basically always return true). See also here: ... Instead use something like: "string-length(path/to/node) > 0", which works correctly in both ODK Collect and Enketo.


Does Enketo provide support for any additional form features?
We'd like to introduce as little as possible and certainly nothing that will break compatibility with ODK Collect, but support for a new appearance attribute 'big-text' will be added for text input fields. This will show a multi-line input field (though it is still limited to 255 characters).
A few additional preloads will be available as well, namely  browser and os (both with parameters: name and version).